############
Introduction
############

.. image:: ../voidfinder_viz.png
VoidRender visualization of the output from SDSS DR7 [@Abazajian:2009].\label{fig:vfviz}

In order to aid in assessing the quality of the VoidFinder algorithm, the 
`vast.voidfinder.viz` package includes a `VoidRender` class 
(`from vast.voidfinder.viz import VoidRender`) which utilizes a combination of 
`OpenGL` and the python `vispy` package to enable real-time 3D rendering of the 
VoidFinder algorithm output.  This 3D visualization allows the user to explore 
3D space in a video-game-esque manner, where the w-a-s-d-style keyboard controls 
function to give the user a full range of motion: 
forward/backward/left/right/up/down translation and pitch/yaw/roll rotation.  
Each void hole of the VoidFinder output is rendered to the screen using the 
icosadehral sphere approximation, where the depth of the approximation is 
configurable and higher approximation depths yield a finer and finer grained 
triangularization of each sphere.  In addition, VoidRender includes an option to 
remove the interior walls of each void, which is approximated by removing the 
triangles from the triangluarization where all three vertices of a given 
triangle fall within the radius of an intersecting sphere.  This option aids in 
visually inspecting the properties of joining spheres.

The galaxy survey upon which the output voids are based may also be included 
within the visualization, where each galaxy is represented by a small dot since 
the radius of even the largest galaxy is negligibly small compared to the radius 
of the smallest void.  For visual purposes, the mouse scroll wheel may be used 
to enlarge or shrink the galaxy dot size.  By passing the appropriate portions 
of the galaxy survey to different parts of the VoidRender keyword parameters, 
wall galaxies may be displayed in black and void galaxies may be displayed in 
red.  Additionally, in order to help visualize the clustering of wall galaxies, 
another VoidRender option plots a thin black line between a galaxy and its K 
nearest neighbors, yielding a denser spider-web look for those galaxies which 
cluster together, as can be seen in \autoref{fig:vfviz}.

![`Vsquared` visualization of the output from SDSS DR7.\label{fig:v2viz}](../vsquared_viz.png)

An animated example of the VoidRender visualization can be found on 
[YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PmyoUAt4Qa8).  VoidRender can be 
utilized to produce screenshots or videos such as this example if a user's 
environment includes the `ffmpeg` library.  `Vsquared` also includes an 
`OpenGL` and `vispy` based visualization for its output.  The surfaces of voids 
found by the ZOBOV algorithm are made up of convex polygons, and are rendered 
exactly in 3D.  Controls for movement and production of screenshots and videos 
are identical to those of VoidRender.  An example of the `Vsquared` 
visualization is shown in \autoref{fig:v2viz}.





Installation
============

`VoidRender` requires OpenGL :math:`\geq 1.2` and `vispy` (``pip install 
vispy``).

Also, on Ubuntu, you may need to install the following::

    sudo apt-get install mesa-common-dev libgl1-mesa-dev libgl1-mesa-dev

There is a version of `VoidRender` that corresponds to each void-finding 
algorithm implemented in **VAST**.  As a result, `VoidRender` will be built and 
installed when either `VoidFinder` or `Vsquared` is built and installed.  Please 
see :ref:`VF-install` and/or :ref:`V2-install` for installation details.





